I love the beach
hey Roger does this beach have cute
lifeguards I don't know how do I say
help I'm drowning in Chinese you can
just say Joe Ming can you swim patty
yes but maybe I can practice Chinese
with a cute lifeguard Oh patty do you
need some sunscreen Daisy I can put it
on your back for you no thanks
I want a tan first why my skin is too
white Roger do you want some sunscreen
not yet
I'm going in the water first are you
girls coming let's go
that was fun I love the ocean me too
swimming is fun I like swimming in a
pool better though the water is cleaner
and it doesn't have salt in it well you
don't have to drink the ocean water I
didn't try to drink it you splashed me
the water went into my mouth I'm sorry
no you're not you're right there aren't
very many people in the ocean today
maybe Chinese people don't like to swim
no you're wrong
I see Chinese people at the pool all the
time some of them are great swimmers oh
well maybe they're not here to swim
maybe they just come to the beach to
have fun that's why we're here
hey guys
let's go for a walk along the beach okay
I'm going to lie here on my towel a
little longer
I want a tan come on you can go with us
and get a tan at the same time oh all
right but first you both really need to
put on some suntan lotion
that was a fun walk patty but the rocks
on the beach
hurt my feet why don't you wear sandals
I told you to and I'm hot too we walked
a long time we did but I found some pity
rods I'm glad well let's go swimming now
I want to cool down that sounds good
let's go swimming again wait take my
picture first okay patty are you coming
with us
I want to look for more pretty rocks now
do you collect them yes my brother and I
always collect shells and rocks when we
go to the beach fun do you want some
help we can look for more rocks with you
that's okay you two go swimming
whoa oh sorry
I mean Dwayne Butchie make wine she are
you okay oh you speak English hey do I
know you
yes hello Patti I'm Derrick you saw me
at the tea house oh right
hi you look different with sunglasses on
sorry to bump into you that's okay
are you looking for rocks - no I'm
looking for my watch
I lost it I'm sorry hey I can help you
you can look for it together
okay thanks I'm sorry you didn't find
your watch Derrick I'll look for it
again after we eat
we'll help you - thanks hmm this
sandwich is so good yes it is Daisy I'm
so glad you could come down from Taipei
this weekend me too
I've had a lot of fun today and Derrick
thanks for joining our picnic thanks for
inviting me
do we have any more ice my drink is warm
no sorry
I'll go to the store and got some for
you patty oh well I'll go with you that
girl is pretty easy would like her tan
hey her watch looks like mine really
maybe it is yours I I don't know let's
find out come on
excuse me what time is it it's five o
clock thanks that's very nice watch may
I see it
okay Patti what are you doing just trust
me
do you wear your watch very often I wear
it all the time even today outside in
the Sun yes so your skin is probably
white where the watch would be just give
me my watch back no this is your watch
so where are we going we're going to a
special place I know but what kind of
special place is it is it a restaurant
oh are we going to a buffet a buffet
are you hungry no but I am curious Patti
this isn't a mystery just enjoy the day
okay
are we going to a party patty okay okay
no more questions
patty dear we're here where are we
we're in Taipei type hey hey daisy lives
here that's right we're going out with
Daisy today really that's great
go get her I can wait in the car okay
hello hi Daisy we're here patty I'm
coming okay
hi mrs. Jones thanks for inviting me
you're welcome dear and Daisy please
call me grandma okay grandma I'm excited
about today me too we're going to have
fun well is everyone ready says where
are we going we're going to eat American
food really yeah you miss home we know
that so we wanted to do some American
things today thank you that will be fun
[Music]
[Applause]
I'm so full that was great food yes it
was thanks for treating us grandma
you're welcome
where are we going now we're going to
Miramar what's that it's a mall no way I
love malls we know well what are we
waiting for let's go
is that a ferris wheel on top of the
building yes it is
if you want to we can ride it later I
want to okay but first let's get tickets
for our movie we're seeing a movie - yes
we're going to the IMAX theater cool
what movie are we watching you'll see
hello we would like four tickets for the
2:30 IMAX movie okay what would you like
to sit can we sit in the back row sure
you choose your seats for a movie
theater here that's different
yes every ticket is an assigned seat
interesting can we also buy tickets for
the ferris wheel here yes how many would
you like
we want four tickets please no problem
that was fun hey what time is it
it's 2:10 we have 20 minutes before our
movie starts can we get some popcorn
sure hey you me yes you what's your
problem problem it's something wrong sir
yes this kid just bumped into me and
spilled his soda all over me no I didn't
I'm sorry sir but are you sure we just
got off the ferris wheel I'm sure I saw
his red t-shirt when did this happen
this happened ten minutes ago at two o
clock I looked at my watch when he
bumped into me I'm sorry about your
shirt sir but you have the wrong guy
Roger couldn't have bumped into you
yes mom I'm fine I'm having a great time
but I miss you I love you too bye how is
your mother she's fine but she misses me
and you miss her well yes but I'm also
having a lot of fun there are so many
interesting things here and you can see
more today we're going back to taroko
gorge
I love the gorge
I know but today we're going to an
Aboriginal village for tourists we can
learn about their culture
are there many Aboriginal tribes on
Taiwan there are 13 tribes we are
visiting a village of the taroko tribe
today what can we do there we can eat
some Aboriginal food and watch dances
that sounds fun
where is Brian we're meeting him at his
house
does he know a lot about the village he
knows a lot about everything you can see
a lot there and you can shop to shop yes
you can buy some arts and crafts I can
buy some for my family at home
here we are what a beautiful place
everything is so green I want to see
everything you will let's start at the
Visitor Center you can see a lot of
things there yes
you'll wants to see the presentation
about the Aborigines you'll learn a lot
great but what can Brian the brain tell
me about them there are over 450,000
Aborigines on Thailand now they came
here many years ago some live here in
the mountains others live on the plains
what did they do they fished or hunted
they also did some farming too and some
of the mountain tribes were headhunters
but they don't hunt heads anymore right
of course not the presentation will talk
about it
are the taroko a large tribe no they're
a small tribe beyond East are a large
tribe many of them also lived in the
haulin area they have a big harvest
festival every year it's a lot of fun I
want to see that maybe you can another
time you don't have time this year then
I'll come back so I can see the festival
good what's that building the
architecture is wonderful we'll see the
presentation about the taroko tribe is
there then we'll look at the exhibits in
another building I'd like to see them
we'll also see some of their arts and
crafts and some taroko women maybe
weaving and later we can see some taroko
dances I can't wait
[Music]
compassion Thank You Jimmy - that was a
good presentation I learned a lot
me too I didn't know about their tattoos
when I first came to Holly and years ago
I saw those tattoos a lot now I rarely
see them only very old people have them
now and someone taking pictures of them
we need to preserve that part of their
culture I know some people are doing
that
the taroko women are very good at
weaving they use lots of colors now but
they used to use only white with some
red and green weeding must take a lot of
time it does let's go back to the gift
shop now I want to buy something from my
mother sure but don't stop too long we
still have more to see can we see the
dances now not now we'll see them after
dinner we can eat barbecued pork and
bamboo rice sounds interesting I want to
try them but we still have a couple of
hours before dinner let's go walk in the
bamboo forest it's above the visitors
centre we can see lots of plants and
birds there let's go
[Music]
[Applause]
do you want to buy one what are they
there are poems in the Torico language
this one is all about bamboo really the
writing is so pretty what are you
looking at this man is selling taroko
poems do you think I should buy one I
think you should save your money
those aren't taroko poems last time we
study three questions and answers today
we'll continue to 30 other three okay
how how old is your niece okay anyone
here how old is your niece how old is
your son-in-law how how old is your
cousin
how old is your nephew okay she's that
is if there is a girl a woman if that is
a boy or a man we have to say he okay
she's 10 years out you can say she's 10
that is still okay she's 10 or she's 10
years old okay any any ages here she's
10 she's 20 she's five does your
father-in-law like dancing you you're
asking about your relatives happy okay
there's your father-in-law I like
dancing you can say there's your
mother-in-law does your grandparents
like dancing swimming
playing golf playing tennis okay if that
is yes you say yes he does and you can
add some more information he's very good
at dancing okay and if that is not you
say no he doesn't and you can guess a
information that he lies other hobbies
okay so that is he likes swimming that
means like he doesn't like dancing but
he likes swimming how many cousins do
you have how many cousins do you have
how many nieces do you have how many
nephews do you have okay I have five
cousins okay I have three cousins
something like that so again we have how
old is your niece
how old is your niece she's 10 years old
she's 10 years old
nurse your father-in-law like dancing
there's her father-in-law like dancing
yes he does he's very good at dancing
yes he does he's very good at dancing no
he doesn't he likes women
no he does and he likes swimming how
many cousins do you have how many
cousins do you have I have five cousins
I have five cousins